hi how are you okay awesome yeah
thank you very much um
yeah so thanks for coming on and do i
call you amaranth or is that
kate is fine kate yes okay um thanks for
coming on kate
uh yeah it was nice to meet you a couple
weeks ago on the scuffed podcast
i watched your stream from time to time
uh but it was really cool to hear your
perspectives on
kind of mental health so thanks very
much for sharing those
no problem i think i'm going to have you
on my screen too so if you need to crop
my window so that you're not shown twice
then you can do that if possible
okay um thanks for letting me know that
you were doing that so
and it's kate you said yes and what did
you
so i saw that our topic today was going
to be something about social media
yeah i was thinking just more of like
the various effects
that social media from the creator side
can have
on the mentality of the streamer or
youtube or whatever it is
yeah i'd love to hear your perspectives
on that
yeah well i'm saying something i've
noticed for me personally i think the
biggest
change with social media is like i feel
like
i don't have as much personality as i
did before i started streaming you know
like day in and day out it's like
because i guess everything's so
monotonous
that i feel like i no longer partake in
the activities that made me me
that's kind of frightening a little bit
to say that you
like no like have less personality or no
longer have personality
yeah it's like really weird it's like i
guess for smiling it's a lot harder for
me to do that like i used to
like i just noticed in myself like i
guess less bubbly because i used to do
like disney princess parties and stuff
for kids birthdays before i started
streaming and that became like something
that was like a part of my like normal
identity too where i was just smiling
all the time
you know i was like positive person and
i guess like social media
i've noticed that physically my mouth
doesn't feel as comfortable smiling so i
don't do it as much
you know i'm hearing emotion in your
voice
yeah yeah i'm a very emotional person
too
do you mind if i ask what you're feeling
right now as you say that
concern okay what are you concerned
about
how to like keep that balance right
because i think that's like the biggest
problem i found
is chasing long-term happiness as like
goal-oriented for being a social media
person like what i want to achieve in
life
versus like short-term mental
like happiness i guess like short-term
indulgences versus like keeping the
grind up to achieve long-term
dreams if that makes sense yeah it does
make sense you know usually i say this
later but can i think for a second yeah
go for it because i'm hearing a lot of
important stuff
from what you're saying kate um yeah and
don't
don't get like too concerned if i sound
emotional part of my problem is i can't
breathe very well so like
i get over anxiety feelings much easier
than normal people i guess
so i have a breathing issue so like i
can't breathe deeply when talking about
things
so i just like sound like i'm about to
cry but like emotionally i feel okay
oh okay that's useful to know so
um
i'm curious about your breathing issues
but i i think that's more on the medical
side
yeah it's it's just something i notice
that if i like stop and i breathe
and then that the waiver in the voice
fades but like if i keep going in a
sentence without breathing it's just
it just sounds really bad yeah it sounds
worse than it actually is
how long have you been breathing like
that
um i guess my whole life has been
deviated but it's gotten worse i've
gotten older
because i think the cartilage is like
growing against my favor
you know just as my nose ages
interesting something i have to fix soon
but that's like another issue is like
scheduling time to get things like that
fixed when it would take like a hiatus
from social media and losing that
momentum and stuff
okay so it sounds like there's really a
cost to taking care of yourself
yeah exactly yeah i'm
you know not to sound bleak kate but i'm
almost like
hearing that you're kind of losing a
part of yourself
yeah i agree um i mean that's
[ __ ] frightening you know
and and so what and by the way disney
princess party sound awesome i think my
kids would
absolutely love that they wear um
they have we got them elsa costumes for
halloween like
two years ago yeah yeah
maybe one year ago it's it's rusty now
but and they wear them like once a week
like my older kid will just be like
today is an elsa costume day and she'll
just like
at 12 30 yeah she'll just like it you
know after lunch she'll go
upstairs to her room and she'll actually
like change and then she'll fold her
clothes and put them away
which is really awesome i mean because
she doesn't leave the mask she used to
leave the mess but she'll just like
today is an elsa costume kind of day and
it's not really a costume it's just like
she just puts on her elster dress
best halloween costume money we've ever
spent
oh yeah yeah they love that stuff i used
to do it like every weekend so
i saw all the dresses all the kids built
the songs it was like a really like
really fun wholesome time yeah and
and i i guess tell me about what that
person was like
the person who did those kinds of things
can you tell me i guess that kind of
thing it wasn't so much that like
i was different in the way i was thought
about things but just like i felt like i
was more happy
but i think some of that comes to do
with like the whole spontaneous nature
of that job right every party was
different and i noticed that with
streaming every day even though you
might be doing different things on
stream
the routine is mostly the same okay
and i feel like that's hard for me
because i do have add you know
and so it feels like that's like almost
like emotionally
like life sucking you know but at the
same time
i also have like a huge goal that i want
to achieve and i know that social media
is like the best way to get there
like monetarily you know and it's also
like
i feel really lucky to have social media
because so many people
want to have a platform and they don't
forget it
so part of me feels like um i need to be
able to take advantage of the
opportunity while i have it because you
know how long it's going to last you
know
yeah so i'm hearing like you kind of
being stuck or pulled in a lot of
different directions
on the one hand you have goals on the
other hand
you're grateful and lucky to have the
opportunities that you have
and on at the same time i'm sort of
noticing that like
taking advantage of those opportunities
and being grateful for what you've been
given
also comes at like a significant
personal cost
yeah that's really tough i mean how do
you
yeah i i mean it sounds it
because i'm i'm sort of hearing you give
a piece of yourself like every single
day
when you do something that's a little
bit more grindy and maybe you don't feel
like it but you recognize like this is
an amazing opportunity so
you sort of like want to do it and you
do want to do it but it just it seems
it sounds like it's hard to do yeah
what makes it hard
i guess like for me um i don't take
breaks
that's probably what makes it hard
because i think for the past four years
it's been like
stream stream stream stream stream like
like
not just like two hours a day but like
anywhere from i guess
eight to 15 hours days of streams yeah
and i don't take vacations or days off
because i'm like oh no the momentum
i would lose all the moments when
working towards because like in
streaming what i've noticed is like
to build something like sub number for
example it's the easiest to measure just
by the numbers
it can take months to build a few
thousand extra subs
but then if you disappear for a week you
can lose them like that
you know so it's like a very like high
cost type of job for if you take time
off
yeah that's hard so it sounds like you
have to
every day off is like
taking away something you built right
do you feel trapped kate a little bit
because i didn't like i guess for me
it's like i started streaming about four
years ago
so this has been most of my like young
adult life
right and it's like if you don't do
stream it's like you can't
there's really no other job that i can
think about that would have like
the same freedom of getting to do what i
want and also the same level of
financial support that it brings
towards like just living plus what i
want to achieve later
and and can you do you mind sharing what
you want you mentioned that once or
twice what do you want to achieve later
i want to open a animal rescue ranch
eventually like no kill
no snow cage so it would be like dog
sanctuary plus some like more farm
animals too maybe
and that's gonna be like a huge thing
that i went like about a big scale
so it's really difficult for me to like
justify time off because i feel like
it's taking away from that
opportunity you know
so it's like a difficult balance it's
like long term i know that
doing it like i have is mentally
draining so i'm probably not performing
at my top level
so like even though i'm streaming every
day i'm probably not growing as much as
i
could be if i was actually like um
mentally healthy because you know
there's a vibe that people have and
they're like they got it all together
just more charismatic to be around but
then if
i focus on my short term happiness and
like get myself put together then i have
less momentum and more distractions to
keep me from actually doing the job
it sounds like there are a lot of things
more important than you
probably let's play a part of it
i mean that's what i'm hearing right i'm
hearing that
like there are a lot of things like it's
like kate
versus growing your stream kate
versus the animal rescue wrench
kate versus amaranth
and and usually like kate ends up at the
bottom which i think is how you end up
four years without a break right because
i'm kind of noticing that
you know whenever you would take a break
there's just some voice in your head
that says but like
actually this is more important so you
can't do that
yeah what does that do to you
see i don't know that's the scary part
like i feel like i'm past
like people always say like don't keep
going you're gonna burn out but i feel
like i would have burned out by now so i
might be past that point and i just
don't even know anymore
how do you i'm like
how do you feel on a day-to-day basis
i don't really know i don't think about
it you know
it's like i just do it
sometimes we don't think about things
because
we don't like what we would discover
that's the thing i don't really know
what i would discover
how do you feel about yourself
that's the scary part is i don't know
anymore
what's scary about that
i feel like a robot a little bit
i mean that's how you treat yourself
right
every day wake up grind and for a good
reason
i think one of the hard hardest things
kate is that some of the worst things
that we do to ourselves
are not out of like selfish reasons but
actually selfless reasons
when we sacrifice we do it for bigger
causes right
causes with a capital c
yeah and it's hard because if you don't
make that sacrifice then
you know you're one step away from
[Music]
the rescue ranch and you're one step
away from all of those animals that need
love and protection and support and it
can almost feel like
your sacrifice like it's like there's
either you sacrifice yourself or you
sacrifice them
right is that how it feels
yeah i would say so like just the the
long term and don't don't feel bad yet
if i'm crying i'm like i'm okay i can
still talk it's just
my body that's how i just don't respond
to any kind of stress whether it's anger
sadness anxiety overwhelm happiness i
just cry it's just that's just me
um yeah that's pretty much how it feels
i guess it's like do i
cater to myself which feels shitty
because to me it's like the animals have
such a shorter life
and you know there's the whole concept
of like if an animal gets stuck in a
shelter
it sometimes can live just a few days
and then they kill it because there's
not enough space
so it feels really bad to like try and
value my life over theirs you know
so how does it feel if you value
yourself over them
selfish i guess
and how long have you been trying to not
be a selfish person
i guess most of my life i've just always
had like a very big
respect for animals and wanting to help
them since i was a kid
i think part of that comes from like not
really having many like social
guides in my family you know because my
parents didn't really have friends
coming over i never had like a social
example i was never good at making human
friends
i was always just friends with the dogs
on my street
can you tell me a little bit more about
that
um yeah i guess like i would just go
outside sometimes and like every day
like
my neighbors dogs just come up and roll
over for belly rubs and it was just like
a genuine connection where it felt like
you could actually connect to them
without
needing to be good at talking you know
and then from like a family where it's
my parents are always working
and i was like left at home most of the
time you get really lonely right
and so animals became like the only
thing i cared about
just how it is you said animals became
the only thing that you cared about but
i wonder if it's
animals really made you feel cared for
yeah that too there's like a mutual yeah
what was it like so it sounds like you
grew up without siblings
uh it's a little complicated i guess
because i had an
older brother who's kind of who's my
half brother that i really connected
with
but then when i was four he moved in
with his dad since i was from my mom's
second marriage
so he left the house and then i was
stuck with my other brother who had like
the middle child complex if you've seen
that before where it's like they don't
get the attention of the young one but
they also don't get
treated with respect like the older ones
so they just kind of like
act out out of spite so he was kind of
rude to me until he became an adult like
you know like big brother like pigs on
like no you can't play with me yeah like
sibling
violence i guess not like actual damage
just like without hitting each other
yeah so just sibling rivalry baby yeah
that's better yeah and and what was
i mean can you tell me a little bit more
about um
you know what kind of situation you grew
up in or what your house was like
growing up
um i guess it was just pretty boring
life you know because it says that my
parents were working but we didn't have
enough money to actually do anything
so we had enough money to survive but we
never traveled we never
like spent much time together so it was
just kind of like
there was nothing wrong with the family
you know like there was never
like domestic violence or never never
abused like my parents argued a lot but
i feel like most couples with
financial problems do that anyways so
nothing out of the ordinary
it was just like a lot of alone time i
guess because they were always working
it sounds like you understand why there
was a lot of alone time
yeah and you kind of you recognize that
that was sort of a necessity because
they had to work
yeah do you remember how you felt
um bored a lot
so like uh i didn't actually get my own
dogs i guess so i was like 12 because my
parents
didn't want me to have that
responsibility as a child because they
weren't there enough to be able to
help so i just like
started playing video games a lot and
like did art and stuff
so i found though that like with my 80d
like stuff like art there's only
i can focus on that like there are a few
things i can hyper focus on like
like training dogs art horseback riding
and i think like
um graphic design if i made like
web web images so i used to like do like
role play on
neopets because it was a dork and very
lonely so
so like certain things i could hyper
focus on but another thing is i was just
like really bored
super easily okay and and what was high
school like for you
more of the same to be honest i was kind
of like i guess a social outcast because
i didn't have any social
guides in my life so i never kind of
learned how to talk to people and how to
like
be emotionally savvy with other humans
it was more of just like
the loner waiting people to talk to me
and that never works when
everyone's waiting for people to talk to
them i found that as an adult
yeah it's like no no that's not
proactive enough to actually make
friends
and and so it sounds like like you've
learned a lot it sounds like you weren't
really modeled
uh there wasn't good modeling in terms
of how to you know engage with people
but at the same time just the fact that
you're talking about it like that
suggests to me that you've like figured
that out and you've
grown in some way yeah i think we talked
about on my own podcast a lot when i
have other girl influencers come on is
that we're all
so afraid of reaching out to each other
because we don't want to be seen as like
a leech
that like ends up just all of us are
lonely and don't talk to people
and how did you learn to overcome that
um i guess just by being online it's
easier right because it's like you send
them a message and you're like hey
come be on my podcast it's so much
different than walking up to somebody
and being like do you want to be friends
dude it's like a lot less scary
and and or do you feel like socially
more adept
now interpersonally or not so much
i feel like i can manage better um
at conventions especially like i feel
like i can talk to people
easier now but
there is always like that fear i guess
from social media that's like you don't
know what their intentions are
if they're meeting you at the convention
like i always have to have security and
stuff it's just like it has a problem i
have a problem trusting people now
because i have so many like stalker
types
that do follow me so it's like i can i
can manage better socially but there's
still part of me that like can't
truly connect in a genuine way sure
what what do you mean by their stalker
types uh
i does have various stalkers but you
don't really know who they are in person
right so like all you know is your
persona so you don't really know what
they look like often so you can't really
like trust them
at conventions when you meet people
because you don't know who
in real life was actually being really
creepy to you online
um so i i'm noticing a change in
in the tone of our conversation it seems
like a little bit easier
does it feel that way yeah
it's just i'm trying to breathe more
good for you breathing is important
um yeah i had a couple of thoughts about
understanding the relationship between
your body and your mind
and uh you know we can go down that road
in a second but
just to kind of give you a quick heads
up so you know i ask you
sometimes kate some questions about how
you feel about yourself
and you're saying i don't really know
and that in and of itself sounds kind of
scary right
is that fair to say yeah and then at the
same time i'm noticing that you also say
that this is just how my body reacts
like and so yeah
perfect so that's a great observation so
the question is like how does that work
and in my experience oftentimes people
who don't know what's going on
in their mind feel it in their body
and so if there is some kind of like so
i i mean i
really see this oftentimes more with men
but like
they don't know the vocabulary
or they feel colorblind to their
feelings
but they can like sense it in their body
in terms of like tension or you know
they get like a lot of tightness around
the shoulders they can clench their
fists
things like that so we can talk a little
bit down the road if you'd like to about
maybe how your body is sending you
signals about how you feel about things
even if you're not consciously aware of
them
right okay also you know i mean i i
don't want to go down the road of
actually
having a medical conversation but one
other thing that i've noticed
is that you know there's good data that
suggests that breathing issues and
anxiety are actually like very
tightly connected um so for example
diseases like asthma are worsened
depending on your mental state
and there's actually like physiological
reasons for that
so depending on you know hormones like
cortisol and like other things they can
actually make your breathing worse
um so high stress states for prolonged
periods of time will negatively impact
your respiratory system
so there may be something kind of there
but so those are just like
that's you know one or two thoughts i
wanted to hear a little bit about
kind of what your upbringing was because
sometimes when people are feeling a
certain way in terms of
what i'm basically hearing from you is
that you're not really sure who you
are anymore you're kind of like losing
yourself
in the grind yeah
and it seems like a lot of the reason
that you grind that way is because of
these like
big goals like goals with a capital g
and so i was and and part of the reason
that
you have those big i mean i think part
of the reason that you sacrifice
yourself is because you do
place other things above you
and so the reason i was asking about
your upbringing is because sometimes
people are sort of taught that
so they're taught that they may be not
as important as other things or they're
taught oddly enough like
selfless sacrifice to the point of
hurting yourself
can be taught two ways one is if you
were very very neglected
the second is if actually someone did
that for you
and then you're kind of like that was
the behavior that was modeled
right um does any of that sort of like
ring a bell or resonate
or gain traction with you i know i sort
of kind of talked about a lot of
different stuff i understand what you're
saying but i don't think that any of
that was actually in my childhood
because for the most part you know my
parents worked like they still told me
they loved me
you know it's like they've gotten
frustrated with each other but like as
an adult you understand
why as a kid you're just like oh shut up
it's like y'all are so annoying
type of thing because like you know you
can hear them doing in like your room or
outside
just about like stupid stuff like you
didn't get cabbage this is lettuce
it's like really really stupid
things yeah i don't think that my
childhood really affected me in that way
as far as my upbringing maybe just the
isolation
set me on the path for like social
issues
like nothing that really like it's not
so much anything that they did
specifically i guess more of what they
didn't do as far as like show examples
and like this is how people socialize
with each other
yeah it sounds like they were pretty
busy so they may not have had time to do
that
yeah so thanks for sharing that i i
think um i'm kind of with you there kate
it doesn't seem like this is something
that started in your childhood not
everything does
and so then let me ask you something you
know when did you
learn how did you learn to like put
yourself
last
when did you start doing that
i'm not sure when i feel like part of it
was probably um when i was streaming
i think in 2017 and then while i was
streaming
one of my dogs started having like bloat
which is um i didn't find that
out to later what it was but that's when
like the dog's stomach if he eats too
fast
or drinks too fast and then goes to do
an activity sometimes the stomach can
start filling with
air and then it turns on itself and it
starts expanding and it cuts off all of
their like organs and they just like die
within 30 minutes and that's what
happened i didn't know what's happening
at the time it was super traumatic
yeah but i feel like after that is when
i said myself last probably
at some level i know that i couldn't
stop it but i still feel responsible for
him dying because i was streaming at the
time
i know like there was nothing i could do
right it's one of those things that
happens it could literally happen if
like someone else was feeding your dogs
you weren't home
or if you just put your food outside and
go put do something else like
it could happen at any time it was just
some really bad coincidence that
happened while i was streaming so
yeah i can hear that your mind
understands that but how do you feel
about it
shitty okay
i can understand that you would feel
that way what does that mean
just like if i had been
there with him while he was eating maybe
he wouldn't have ran and got his
bloat started you know but i know that
like especially since i didn't even know
what it was at the time
i would have no idea right it wasn't
something that i was aware of and was
just like neglecting the situation it's
something that's not even talked about
by vets very much
they just say oh dogs of this breed can
be prone to bloat but they never
actually explain what that
is or the symptoms or anything oh my god
yeah so it's like it's like common in
german shepherds and stuff
oh was it was your dog a german shepherd
or a german shepherd
i grew up with a few german shepherds
um so it's uh so
kate i'm hearing you kind of like you
i'm seeing emotionally i'm seeing one
thing
and the words that are coming out of
your mouth seem to be something else
so like you're saying it wasn't my fault
it's a coincidence
it could have happened at any time and
it sounds like you really understand
that and yet
you still feel pretty shitty about it
i'm guessing that you feel guilty
like there's a disconnect it's like i
know i shouldn't but they still do
yeah so why shouldn't you feel guilty
because there's nothing i could do at
the time for him right
because it's like it happened at
midnight and the only way to for them to
even have a chance of living if it
starts doing that is to get them to like
an emergency
clinic and there were like none around
me at midnight and the operation then
may not even work to save sure so it was
like something that like really
was just an unfortunate thing that i
couldn't do anything about
so i know that it's not my fault like
that he had this
but i also just it feels bad right
because it's like you wish you would
spend more time with them
yeah and and so i want you to pay
attention to what you said there i know
it's not my fault
but it feels bad and what i hear you
doing right now is reassuring yourself
does that make sense like you're almost
like a friend consoling yourself
you're you're trying to tell the longest
time i did feel like it was my fault but
like i've come to terms like no there's
like it could
literally happen at any time you could
be out of town and someone would come
feed them and it could still happen
yeah or you could be with them and you
wouldn't i mean you can't
know what's happening to their stomach
right
you know so it sounds like you feel
pretty
beat up about that and and you know i
asked you when did you start putting
yourself last and then you came up with
this story
so how has this affected you
i think it made me feel like um
afterwards it's like yeah i gave him
like he i guess i got him when he was
like six months old so i've had until he
was five and this happened and i was
like he got to live five like really
good years imagine all those dogs in the
shelter because i
didn't get him from a shelter who gets
to live there for like a week and
because no one claims them they just
kill them
you know and so i guess like feeling
guilty for that even though like i know
i shouldn't kind of like make me
find my life purpose so in a way like
it's something i'm really passionate
about so i know that
good has come from the incident as
horrible as it sounds
but it just feels really bad though
because he didn't get to live longer
you know it really is a real tragedy
and so i i had to see him die right i
like saw him having
seizures it was like a really traumatic
like nightmare type of
traumatizing event for a long time
and now like i still have nightmares
occasionally of like
a zombie version of him coming out of
the ground and running around which is
really [ __ ] up but it's like it
affects me still
after three years but i also know that
it's something that i can't do anything
about
so what do we do when something affects
us and we can't do anything about it
we cry yeah
right so kate i'm getting the sense that
you you're still
carrying this burden and even though you
know it's not
really logical at the same time
so if we think about behavior behavior
is not just
motivated by logic
right and and i'm kind of i'm getting
the sense that there's like that emotion
is part of what keeps you from taking
care of yourself and taking a break and
things like that because it's sort of
like
like does that make sense
and what do you think about that
i don't really know it's more of just
like one of the things like i really
want this skull
and so i just keep going and then that's
why i'm confused i'm like do i
chase the long-term dreams that i know
would make me like
fulfilled in my life ultimately like
what i really want to do my passion
or do i like take care of myself in the
moment and like
indulge in little like moments of joy to
keep myself mentally staying
at the risk of like my momentum of the
career because it is a very momentum
based
thing that i found with social media so
it's like if you take a little time off
then
you're like monetization directly is
impacted
you know yeah
can i think for a second yeah go for it
it may be a long second
it's okay my second's thinking about
having very long too
why are you less deserving than other
people or animals
hmm i don't know if it's so much i
consider myself less deserving it's just
that it's hard for me to
want other things like as much
what do you mean by other things like
taking free time off feels less
rewarding to me
than having my animal ranch fulfilled
because it's like the things i could do
in the meantime like
take a day off go for it i don't know
whatever mental
health things people do to relax what
are they gonna go to the spa
they travel i don't even know i've never
done any of it
it's like i don't know i just like free
time
having free time quote unquote doesn't
feel as rewarding to me
okay sorry i'm getting it
alone though right all i have is like me
and my dogs which is great but dogs
can't go everywhere
right and so i don't really have like a
bunch of friends local that i could like
even think of
activities to do with
okay so like time alone feels less
rewarding i guess
i'm wondering if actually like not only
were social skills not modeled but
relaxation and recreation weren't
modeled
what do you think probably i mean i
don't think my parents
ever did that either like we never took
vacations or anything because mostly
because we didn't have the money to
yeah but that's you know
that's probably created my lack of
desire for a vacation because i've never
seen how like fun it is
you know i've never been exposed to the
thrills of relaxing
okay i'm gonna need a minute because
this is
things are coming together for me but
i'm also there a lot of different
directions can i just think
that's fine okay so let's just think
about this
trying to sketch out a plan
to transform your life oh
but really to transform your way
okay sorry for the silence i know it
doesn't make for a very
entertaining
twitch chat i just glanced over i made
the mistake of glancing at twitch and
they said get cats
i already have dogs i'm good
what kind of dogs do you have i have a
border collie and a caucasian shepherd
what's a caucasian shepherd uh they
aren't very popular here they're like um
russian mountain dogs used for like
guardian protection
they guard russian prisons big
and ballpark i learned this i made this
mistake on the first or second time i
ever did a stream where i asked
a young woman where she's from and i
realized i'm not supposed to do that but
i'm just curious
generally what part of the country do
you live in
i'm in texas i'm in texas too
oh i grew up in texas
same i think i lived in the same house
until i moved out
okay
so i think some of this stuff is like
spiritual
some of it is like a little bit more
psychological and some of it is a little
bit more physiological
and i realize we haven't been talking
very long so
generally speaking i try to tie things
together for people at the end
but i think you've you've done such an
awesome job of like sharing so much
like so much rich information that i'd
like to lay out a couple things and then
i'm curious about
how we can help you or maybe explore
whatever sticks because some of it may
not stick any of it may not stick
does that sound okay yeah
so the first thing is like i get the
sense kate that it's you
or them right like you make a lot of
decisions
every day where it's like i have to do
this or like i get to choose one or the
other
and the crazy thing is that like that
fundamentally needs to change
it needs to be you and them and i think
you already actually suspect this in
some ways where you kind of say
if i don't take care of myself i can't
quite pop
on stream sometimes the way that i
showed or i need to
and that like the quality of your
streams could actually go up
taking care of yourself and as someone
who works like in stress
management is my day job that is what i
see overwhelmingly
people tend to have this idea
that you know i don't have time for
wellness so i'll leave you with a really
fascinating i think quote from the dalai
lama
in the dalai lama said people should
meditate for half an hour a day
if they don't have the time they should
meditate for
how long what do you think uh
10 minutes beautiful no he said if you
don't have the time you should meditate
for an hour
right do we need it more yeah
and i know it sounds absolutely crazy
but like that's actually how it works
people who don't have time to meditate
for half an hour when they meditate for
an
hour everything gets better and they
find the time
so when i teach like so i do some work
with like corporations and stuff and
like part of what i tell them is that
you can't tell people to take care of
themselves off of the clock
so what i actually encourage like
companies and hospitals to do
is like bake meditating time into their
day
and pay him for it you'll see a return
on your investment
it's crazy but what i tell people is
when they call me in for like a
meditation training i say don't have me
come at 5 pm
have me come in the middle of the
workday and they don't have to stay
longer
it's dedicated time to take care of
yourself because that's actually part of
your job
it's part of your job and so the first
thing that has to change is that you've
got to start stop thinking in terms of
either or
and and then the question becomes okay
how the [ __ ] do we do that
so that's one thing right so like
yeah so we'll get to that so but i just
want you to notice
that your mind is programmed to think in
terms of either ors
it's like i have to do this or that and
i just don't
accept that logical premise
so you're going to wake up and like you
know you're going to say like okay i
could do this but i don't feel like
doing this i don't i really don't want
to do this
and then your mind is going to
automatically go to like either i do
this or i do this but like just
try to take a step back and try to find
an and somewhere in there
can you start stream a little bit later
every day can you stream for like less
than 15 hours
you know can you like like put some
kinds of limits around it
take care of yourself and stream
second thing is i think you've gotta
unburden yourself
and i know there's a lot of these
questions are going to be like how and
so we'll get to that
but i mean i get the sense kate that you
carry around
a lot of weight which really does not
need to be on your shoulders
and what i mean by that is like you have
this pressure to create this range like
i don't know
how to explain this to you but like you
can't really do that
right so like for the same reason that
like there's the random bloat stuff and
i don't mean to bring up something
negative but my point is that
there's a certain amount of rng in real
life
and for you to slave and sacrifice
yourself
for like this thing is i just don't
think that that's
fair or even reasonable can the ranch
happen absolutely should you devote
yourself to it absolutely
and at the same time there's a certain
amount of [ __ ] rng
right so like i it sounds crazy to me
that like you're you're
doing all of this stuff but like take a
step back and recognize that
you know the ranch is going to happen if
it's going to happen
the other thing is that like what you
kind of mentioned this nightmare about a
zombie dog
what i'm actually envisioning is 10
years from now you succeed at the ranch
and instead of like disney princess kate
running it
and it's gonna be like have you seen
snow white like the old one
yeah so like you know how snow white
runs around a lot of animals like
surrounding her that are singing and
dancing and stuff like that
that's what i envision the ranch is what
the ranch should be
and what i'm actually seeing is like
zombie kate running
the ranch because that's what you're
gonna turn into
the way that you're going and it's gonna
be like everything is like scary and
like you're like a zombie because you
burnt out and
and you're like i don't even know what
burning out is that means you burnt out
you're already burnt out
this is this is burnout yeah that's what
i was like wondering because everyone's
like
always sworns about a burnout i'm like i
never felt that coming does that mean
that it's by past that point
yeah so let me give you a quick heads up
if you don't know who you are as a
person you cry at random times
and you feel like your soul is being
sucked away by social media
you might be burnt out probably
those may be signs of burnout i don't
know what that sign of but burnout sure
as hell
like kind of fits there right yeah so i
i really do think it's worthwhile to
kind of
take a step back and think about you
know in order for you to really
make the ranch what you want it to be
what it needs is not like burden
like it's not like a sense of like
severe duty that's going to create the
place that i
envision when i hear you talk about it
it's actually like
love and caring and what i'm hearing
from you is that like
that person is slipping away from you
which is why it's so [ __ ] terrifying
you're just not that person anymore it
doesn't feel like you are that person is
still in there
we gotta let her out we'll get to the
house but i genuinely do think that
taking care of yourself
is gonna help you be the person that has
that compassion to get
if you look at studies of burnout the
first thing to go
when someone gets burnt out is empathy
and compassion
that's what your mind and body and
physiology and neuroscience sacrifice
so if you look at physicians who are
burnt out the number one sign of burnout
is a lack of empathy
people stop caring about their patients
they go there and they like do the work
of saving their lives
but they stop caring when you you know
when you're working with a patient who's
been diagnosed with
cancer and the family like wants to talk
to you about things that are not medical
the compassionate physician sits down
and has that conversation the burnt out
physician which doesn't mean that
they're an [ __ ]
is like looking at their clock and
thinking about okay where when can i get
out of this room
and like finish up my orders and check
in with the nurses and do all my
documentation so that i can go home
at a reasonable hour like 8 30 at night
and i've been here since 7 in the
morning
and it's not the physician's fault it's
just compassion goes first
so i genuinely think that like you've
got to start taking care of yourself so
that you can be the compassionate person
like
that's why i think you're losing
yourself because you can't
you can't be that person right i think
in my case because i don't have other
people around me it's like that
has been towards myself compassion and
empathy what do you mean
towards yourself like losing it losing
it towards myself like my self-care and
stuff
yeah absolutely other people it's a very
isolated job
and and that we kind of see too because
i i think like you know because i i get
the sense that i mean
clearly you've told us that you actually
like don't take care of yourself
right and and that for example you have
some potential medical problems that
may need to be reevaluated and stuff but
you can't find the time in the day
right um so the last thing is that like
i encourage you to i know this may sound
bizarre and and maybe we can have a
brief conversation about like religion
or spirituality but like
i encourage you to think about taking
what life has given you
so like you're lucky and you're grateful
which is awesome
but also like you know just because
you're lucky and great
grateful and you have this opportunity
doesn't mean that you have to sacrifice
yourself
i mean something about this just feels
to me like you're not
counting on the forces whether they be
twitch at
your general charisma your rng or your
cosmic duty
are like they're supporting you and then
you don't have to do it all yourself
like i came onto this platform and i
tried to do it all by myself and like it
doesn't work i can't do it
i can't save the internet it's
ridiculous
but that's how we feel right like you
feel like you have to do it all yourself
but like
don't i mean i don't know how else to
say i mean as someone who has
recognized that i am very very well
supported by like thousands of people
like there are people who are in your
corner too
you don't have to grind out every sub to
make this ranch happen
like if the ranch really is going to
happen it can't be done just by you
because you're talking about making it
big
right yeah and so are you thinking about
personally bankrolling it
um part of it's going to be like
fundraising i feel like through social
media but
i guess for me personally i want to make
sure that i'm
like i have enough money saved up for
like emergencies or just general life
things for myself
so that that way every um discretionary
income that i make can be
spent towards the charity organization
aspect of it so yeah it's not my income
anymore but instead it's like
through the charity yeah so i i think
that like so just
like stop and think about that so that
when you when you wake up on a
particular day and you're like hey i
need to start streaming right away or i
need to keep streaming like
i don't know how those thoughts if those
thoughts like factor in
to your decision in the moment do they
i guess at this point it's not really
thinking about it it's more of just like
ingrained in me it's like i get up and i
do this
and like i like i wouldn't know what
else to do with my day at this point
where it's like as far as working
productively towards
the goal goes yeah so then i think we
get to the next thing
so i like your idea of a charity and
stuff like this because
as someone who also had a mission to
create an organization and
personally bankroll it it's not
sustainable
you're just going to tear yourself apart
i was working a full-time job
as a doctor and trying to start a
healthy gamer and it just doesn't work
um so the last thing
i think is is kind of like more
practical which is like okay so like
what do we do about this stuff
right and i think some of this stuff is
actually like super super like nuts and
bolts
it sounds to me like you literally don't
know how to take care of yourself
yeah a little bit and i i don't mean
that to be like
does that sound condescending no okay i
just have
like if i've never been taught in my
home life i also never like
tried to do it as an adult then
naturally you just like don't know what
to do
yeah absolutely so you know here
so so then we can talk about practically
like how do you take care of yourself
and and some of this stuff also involves
like behavioral reinforcement because
on the one hand i'm feeling like this
sense of like you know duty
or to create this thing for animals and
like make the world a better place
and on the other hand like even when you
don't like that
at least the grind feels rewarding
because you know you're moving towards
this like
ultimate goal yeah and then
the flip side is like if you don't
stream for a day then you're just kind
of twiddling your thumbs and like
doing laundry and like kind of hanging
out around the house and you're like i
don't even know what the [ __ ] i'm doing
with my life
yeah and so how can we help you
get some kind of reinforcement through
taking care of yourself that you can
start to like learn and appreciate like
that's also an important practical thing
um so
thoughts about what i've said so far
um yeah i mostly agree i think another
part is just like
i know that there are certain things
that help me clear my mind but it's also
like justifying them i guess
getting to a point where it's like oh
that would be great but then afterwards
it's like look at all the time you
wasted that you could have been
streaming with
so if i like took time off to like maybe
go like horseback riding or something
which is like
a meditative activity for me you know
you can clear your mind think be out in
nature it's great but then it's like
afterwards you're like
and i just spent the whole morning not
streaming
kind of like flip side guilt yeah so
how long have you been feeling that
guilt
probably for maybe like three years or
so
so is this also like it sort of started
when your dog passed away
yeah okay
so kate
okay so there's so much to talk about so
first of all i want to just kind of
check in with you about how this
conversation is going
i'm noticing that a lot of times i have
like emotional conversations with people
where there's a lot of like catharsis
and like realizing what's really holding
you back kind of stuff
um are you hoping for something like
that is that what you want
i guess that would be nice also just
like
it's they feel like it's also just an
important conversation to have about
like
it's okay to feel this kind of way for
screamers you know where it's like the
grind makes you like
like you're going crazy i think that's
like normal to know that you're not
crazy
yeah a lot
that is important um so can you tell me
about
you know what what about streaming makes
you feel like you're going crazy
um i guess like i i personally
do have 80d so it's like just like the
chat in general doesn't
work well with my ability to retain
information or to process it at all
you know okay like i think your
conversation with misgive
and he he also has the same issues that
i felt like
there's like problems like focusing on
like conversations typically if i like
if i'm looking at chat like right now i
have chat clothes because i get
i get so distracted um i have difficulty
like taking in just like my environment
things happening around me i'll often be
like in my own head and i'll like
sometimes just like bump into stuff at
stores i just don't realize like
anything's there
and then like i'm super messy i also do
the thing of like leaving fridge doors
open
jars off lids when i was living with my
roommate
they would often think that i got
abducted
because they would come home and like
groceries outside of the car because i
would be like making trips unloading the
car and i would just like get distracted
and do something else and then the
cabinet would be open the jar of peanut
butter
would be left like with the lid off and
like the milk cap
wasn't screwed on but it was still put
back in the fridge
so it was like stuff like that where
they're like what happened here
okay yeah it does seem like you got
abducted everything's like half done
right so it's sort of like
someone just walked in and just snatched
you up yeah
and and so that sounds like add really
does
yeah um yeah i mean that doesn't make
you crazy but you
said something about social media and
and streaming and how
you kind of feel crazy sometimes i
juggle too many things
right or like i try to which would be
like i guess
okay if i was healthy but because i
don't get enough sleep because of the
pressures of social media having to
constantly make stuff get stuff done on
all the platforms
i feel like my mind can't handle it off
on a functional level
like because i i have three youtube
channels i have two
in no three instagrams i have two
twitters and i stream full-time
as well and and i also have to have
photo shoots during the week for
instagram
and like it's why it's
why do you have three instagrams because
i have my personal one in case something
ever happens to my main one
um and then i also have my dog's
instagram because i'm trying to grow
that towards like the animal stuff later
in life and network with trainers and
things on that
uh so yeah i have i'm very diverse and i
feel like
my 80d mentality thinks like i can
handle this i'm used to multitasking
yeah but because i'm
taking care of myself i just feel like
i'm actually going insane
more than i normally would be with all
the multitasking
what is going insane what do you mean by
that like
bringing fog a lot like i'll just like
stop like i'll
i can't remember what i was doing and
stuff you know it's like different from
like process information like mid task
i'll just be like totally blanking on
like what i was just doing
okay so you're noticing like a cognitive
impact
is yeah you say the word insane to
describe it is like having a browser and
you keep opening new tabs to the point
where it just no longer responds
okay so i'm not hearing anything kind of
emotional in terms of insanity what i'm
hearing is like more
cog like cognition so it's like like
you're kind of
you know your program crashes like
making pv and j
dot exe has crashed and it's just yeah
just stop and then there's like peanut
butter and jelly jars
in two different places yeah it's a lot
of like different effects i guess
because the emotional side feels like
because i don't like cater to like my
own self i don't i don't have like
as much personality or know myself
anymore you know but then there's also
the cognitive side where i feel like i'm
doing so much that like
my mind is actually stopping its
performance
okay who did you used to be
i guess just more like spontaneous and
energetic and fun like i still have like
a lot of energy but not like
in my um emotional side it's weird it's
like i have physical energy
but i'm not like as bubbly or happy
on a daily basis if that makes sense
it's weird it's like hard to explain
because i guess english doesn't have
that many good words for it but it's
like
emotional energy is a lot less
what keeps you what what kind of keeps
you from being happy on a day-to-day
basis
i just overloaded my system like like i
don't have enough free time to do
the things that i know would be helpful
for myself like to de-stress
what like the like the like taking long
walks
i guess with the dogs or like horseback
riding things i'm just like there's not
enough hours in the day to accomplish
all the different aspects of my social
media empire
and also still take time for myself so
it's like
i know kind of like what would help but
then
it would also be detrimental i feel to
the career side so it's like a lot of
conflicting
feelings
i also do not have a good sleep schedule
which is like i know that it's bad
but i also feel like every time i try to
like
finish my tasks faster and go to sleep
there's just always more to do
how many hours yeah so you know
you know the problem with sleep
schedules is that they're wonderful in
theory
but like practically like who the [ __ ]
has time for a sleep schedule
does that make sense yeah so
my average is like four to five hours
how many
hours a day do you work
um i guess technically every time i'm
not
sleeping i'm working in some way because
it's either like getting ready for
stream you know like makeup and hair and
all that or like i'm
uh doing photo shoots
for my other platforms or i'm like
answering messages and emails so i guess
i work constantly if i'm not sleeping
which i guess in my case should be
considered napping because it's really
not that restful
this is [ __ ] awful dude yeah
what how do you feel when i say that
true
like a big true
what's what's true about it
it's not healthy
i mean that's true what else
what's awful about it
i don't know what else well it's hard to
put in the words i guess like just the
feeling of being trapped again
trying to figure out how to dig further
right and and you do yeah that's
something i haven't really been able to
do
lately what are you trapped by
i guess the what i know it might be like
just my psychological
feeling of what the job requires but
just like having to be
constantly uploading content everywhere
just to keep everything alive and
working together towards like
constant growth rather than loss i guess
of
numbers and relevancy and monetary and
all that stuff
and it's not so much like an ego thing
like i don't really care about if it was
just
like you know myself like i feel like i
have enough confidence as a person
it's just like the the dream that i have
it's like so intense that i feel like no
i don't want it to slip away because
it's like a very rare opportunity that
most people don't get
i feel to actually like be in the
position where you can
actually accomplish what you want
so you feel lucky and it's almost i'm
almost getting the sense that you feel
beholden to the dream
and the big dream because you can
actually achieve it
yeah it almost yeah it's like most
people just have dreams and they never
get to even have a chance at achieving
them
and so you would be an ungrateful little
[ __ ] if you had the chance to achieve
your dream and you let it slip by
because you wanted to sleep for five and
a half hours instead of five
right so kate i'm gonna say something to
you it may sound kind of weird
i think what you've done is you've
managed to build an empire
and empires i know this is going to
sound like kind of a silly question it's
not a trick question
so you know what requires more of your
life force
one youtube channel or three
i'm actually not sure because i feel
like for me
once i'm in the mode of working you know
like it doesn't feel much different
maybe i'm just so used to it
it's where like working a little bit i
might as well work a lot because if
it feels like the same amount of energy
for each task you know
yeah so that that sort of boggles my
mind because the short answer is three
youtube channels take more energy than
one youtube channel
and sometimes we you know i kind of talk
about
thoughts and i think what you've managed
to do kate is you built this
empire and the bigger it grows the more
of you it
takes right
and like as you get closer and closer to
success
you get more and more like lost
because like now there's three
instagrams and three youtubes and then
like not only do each of them require
their own thing and two twitters
plus streaming plus photo shoots
and you could give it was fine to
sacrifice yourself when there wasn't
like that much
the empire wasn't as big and hungry as
it is now
but you fed it and it's grown
and then it wants more and the only
place that you know
like where to feed it is from yourself
and what i'm almost getting the sense of
is that like you're getting consumed by
it
yeah i mean the first in the first five
minutes you were talking about like
losing yourself in social media
and now what i'm kind of getting a
picture of is like you've like created
this monster
and then the more you feed it the bigger
it grows
and the bigger it grows the hungrier it
gets and the more food it needs
right and then you're just getting keep
everything growing
yeah what do you think about that
it just is what it is if you want to go
that route right it's like
i don't really know how to keep it
growing without like
cutting without cutting back a
significant amount and still like
catering to my happiness right it's like
it's almost like i have to choose
and the problem is i don't want to
choose i'm very indecisive like i want
both and as a result of that i feel like
neither
yep so there it is right i feel like i
have to choose
no you don't have to there's there's
you're thinking that's the
you or them you feel like you have to
choose i don't think
you actually need to choose i know it
sounds crazy
but i i think you can take care of
yourself and
that the empire can i mean there may be
practical things in terms of
i don't know if you like work with other
people or like you have employees or you
like farmers helps with some stuff
yeah so i mean there's always that kind
of stuff but and ultimately if you want
to grow i think that's the right you
have to go because you can't do it all
yourself
but i think that this is this is the
crux of the problem and i think in your
case
i have something that i really want to
tell you but i think it's going to
terrify
lay it on me i've already terrified
myself a lot
i think you've got to let go of your job
and i'm not saying that you shouldn't
pursue it
right but like you can't there's no such
thing as like
long-term happiness that very idea
is false this is like part of the gold
at the end of the rainbow and i see this
time and time and time again like so
like my favorite examples are from
investment banking
so these are people who work really hard
in college to get their dream job
and then they get their dream job at a
place like goldman sachs
and then they're like an analyst there
which means that they're at the bottom
of the totem pole
and if they just keep grinding and keep
grinding things are going to get better
and then they find themselves as
associates and they have more money and
now they can fly first class
for the 10 days that they get to
themselves every year
right and then the other 355 they're
working and then they become
vice presidents then they become
directors and then they become managing
directors
and then they make 16 million dollars a
year and they've made it
and they sacrifice so much they're 58
years old
they've been divorced three times
and that's the end of the rainbow
and then they look back at their life
and they're like this
is it this is what i did it for
and they're filled with regret and
loneliness and it's not what it was
supposed to be it's not what they
thought it was
it was a fantasy and then ultimately
like each step of the way in theory
things got better and they moved closer
and closer to their goal
and like are you moving closer and
closer to your goal
uh i am and how does that feel
it's like a light at the end of the
tunnel right it's like oh i'm almost
there and then i can like
feel the peace and enjoy but then part
of me is like what if i get there
and i'm so [ __ ] up that i can't even
find that happiness i'm looking for yeah
and i think the scary thing kate is i'm
hearing that
the closer you get to your goal the
worse that you feel
and the worse that you feel the more you
hold on to the fantasy
because that'll make it okay
and then like that's 22 yep
and so i think kate you gotta start
living for today
and if if the light at the end like i
have faith in you i think that
your passion and compassion and drive
and dedication
are not gonna disappear if you take a
week off
like you're not gonna magically
transform into a [ __ ] lazy [ __ ]
you know like if you take a week off i
want you to have faith in yourself that
you'll get there one day and you're not
gonna do it on your own and killing
yourself in the process is
certainly not gonna help and as your
empire has grown and you've gotten
closer and closer to like success
you like fall more and more into the
dark side
right and then you like you reach all of
your ambitions and then you look back at
your life and it's like
empty and filled with like ruin and
that's not
good yeah and i know it's really really
scary but i think you've got to start
letting go like i'm not saying don't try
but what i'm saying is like don't attach
yourself to that
outcome it's kind of like you're looking
at the top of the mountain
and you're kind of saying it's going to
be amazing when i get to the top it's
going to be amazing when i get to the
top
which which you should really be focused
on is like how am i going to take the
next step
you can't ever avoid taking the next
step
and is that the right step or the wrong
and what i'm hearing right now is that
like you've pulled a muscle
and you're forcing yourself to continue
to climb
and like that's not the way to get to
the top of the mountain
as someone who's tried to climb them out
and pulled a muscle and kept going
crazy story then maybe i'll share it one
day but
does that make sense like i just don't
like i think you've got to take care of
yourself in the here and now
and like don't i mean i know it sounds
weird to say don't worry but
just have faith in yourself that you'll
get to where you want to go
yeah it makes sense it's just like i
guess it's hard to
let go of the grind because of the way
that if i was on youtube i feel like
it'd be easier because you can schedule
a bunch of videos and then take a week
off and it's fine
it's like you weren't didn't even
disappear just i think twitch is unique
in the fact that like
when you're not live people are
constantly being distracted
with other people who are alive and it's
like if you're gone for a week that's
how habits form and they just watch
other people and so it feels like you're
losing
everything that you've built and like
it's just difficult to like
justify time off because it's how it is
especially with like the way the
subsystem works like people are falling
off every day
i feel like it would be a little easier
but twitch would probably never fix this
if they had like
a certain day like the first of the
month where subs were charged then you
can like schedule your time off
but that's just not how it is so it's
really hard to like justify that
yeah so i i don't know that you should
take a week off but what i'm thinking
about is like it starts small
right so you've built up this empire by
feeding the beast
one bite at a time and then two bites
and then three bites and four bites
and i think your road to balance is the
same way
so i think it's not so much about don't
because like you say that the
pile of tasks you have to do is endless
right
there's always something else to do so
at the end of the day
you know you have a hundred tasks and
you can do 40 of them
on a given day like what's the
difference between 38 and 40.
so what i would encourage you to do is
set aside some amount of your day
to take care of yourself every day
don't think about it as doing less work
because you actually may not even do
less work it's just carve out the time
for like
one hour a day to like do something for
yourself
what do you think about that
yep it's definitely more i guess um
reasonable of an approach
to me
the discipline and actually following
through with that yeah
yeah so so dis discipline is like i
think discipline is not the right word
discipline is not what you need what you
need is practice right so this is
everyone's like oh i'm lazy it's going
to be hard
i guarantee you it's going to be hard
it's not you're not it's not discipline
discipline is not actually the answer at
all you don't need to be disciplined
you're never going to be disciplined
you're always going to be a creature
that is like pulled by your impulses
that's what people with add are and i
think that's actually okay
like 80d is a problem because you leave
peanut butter or jars open but it also
allows you to thrive
in a social media environment because
you can manage
eight social media accounts plus a
twitch stream
yeah people without add can't do that
[ __ ]
like your mind is actually designed to
thrive in this sort of environment
and you need to practice doing something
else
and so i don't know if it's like
horseback riding like do you do
scheduling or no do you do schedules
no not really or just like when
i feel like i can't handle anymore i'll
just like do something and then but then
i'll
during it it's like i'll feel great and
then afterwards it's like oh no
it's so much type of thing it's like
it's it clears my mind in the moment and
then after you feel like
the guilt yeah so let's talk about that
for a second
okay so just because you have
okay this is going to sound like a
stupid question so sorry if it confuses
you because it's so
stupid but our thoughts facts
no okay so like you're gonna go
horseback riding
and then you're gonna feel guilty right
and then that guilt is going to generate
thoughts
does that make sense yeah so you're
gonna say like oh i wasted so much time
but those are just they're just [ __ ]
thoughts they're like
patterns they're like conditioning it
doesn't actually mean
that's true like sure you spent an hour
horseback riding and you could have done
some things during that hour but even if
you had done things during that hour you
still would not ever be doing enough
right it's kind of like let's say that
i'm trying to empty the ocean with a
teaspoon
and then i spend an hour horseback
riding instead of emptying the ocean
and then i come back and it's like oh my
god i could have emptied 30 teaspoons
out of the ocean
and it's like yeah that's technically
true but who the [ __ ] actually cares
it's not gonna make a difference
yeah it's true and what i want you to do
so this is like very important for like
people who are watching too is that
do something to take care of yourself
but don't do it to take care of yourself
do it as an experiment so go horseback
riding today's friday
do you stream over the weekend yeah
can you go horseback riding over the
weekend
like i imagine it's safer in terms of
covet stuff right
because texas is crazy right now so your
your homework is to go horseback riding
and more importantly you're gonna go
horseback riding and then what you're
gonna do is pay attention
watch and see when the feelings of guilt
arise
and like just let them arise and they're
gonna have those thoughts and like
you kind of like you know it's sort of
like when you're training a dog like the
dog sometimes barks
and if you kind of like give into it
it's gonna like agitate more
but if you kind of just behave with
tranquility then you kind of like
it'll calm down and see what happens
with how long the guilty thoughts last
if you don't feed into them
you don't disagree with them kind of say
yeah you're right i could have
i could have done more but i chose not
to
i'm going to feel guilty so be it what
do you think about that
i think that it's it's probably likely
i'll soon forget with my way of thinking
of like
if i don't focus on it i'll move on to
something else in my mind
okay so this is also so good
i was getting the sense that something
about that wasn't sitting well with you
um and and so then the question becomes
so then like how but so so what are you
gonna do about that kate like this is
just because you forget about things
like you can't
in my mind you have to figure out some
way to and i can help you
but um you know just because your mind
is likely to forget
doesn't mean that you can't you can't
give up practicing because you're likely
to forget
it's sort of like you have to do with
this in spite of that does that make
sense or am i losing you yeah
yeah it makes sense so i mean that's
also where i'd say like you're streaming
right now
right and how long are you streaming
today
i don't really know typically it goes
until i'm like okay i have things to do
and i don't have like a set schedule for
my end time typically just for my start
times
okay can you go tomorrow horseback
riding
no not tomorrow why not
um because i already had stuff
planned for tomorrow's stream i wanted
to do like cooking and like a dog walk
and stuff
that's i plan out my streams weekly so
that's why it's like all so hard i have
to like kind of like schedule
i guess the time off hold on hold on i'm
confused
i thought you didn't do well with
schedules not for my own time
my free time okay so now we get to a
really important point
this has to be part of your job it's not
free time
yeah you remember when i was telling you
like when i go to a corporation i'm like
yeah
you guys are going to have me teach
meditation can't be at 5 p.m when
everyone's ready to go home
has to be during work hours you need to
reduce the amount that you work
not squeeze this in as extra kate this
must change this is part of your job
because zombie kate is not gonna get as
many subs
as fun kate living cape let's call her
living gate and zombie cake
yeah right so this has to be part of
your job
and where's the rebellion go ahead rebel
i'm i don't have any right now really
really
so when do you make your schedule for
the week
uh sunday night okay so do you have can
you do it can you go horseback riding on
sunday
no i have a podcast okay i have to
schedule it for some time next week
okay so schedule it as part of your day
and if you need to to feed the social
media beast take a lot of selfies
how does that feel it's it's not so much
like a
a selfie type thing it's more just like
the stream okay
even better than no selfies that sounds
far healthier to me
but you gotta schedule time for yourself
my dude
like it's the only way this is gonna
work because you're just getting lost
hate is getting consumed by amram
yeah and you've got to like help her out
like she needs your help
she's like it's almost if you want to
get super like freudian and
psychoanalytical
you were you were sacri you were leaving
kate
alone at home while amaranth goes to
work
for 16 18 20 hours a day
and you're doing exactly to yourself
what your parents did to you
which is not abusive it's just
you always come last because there are
more important necessities
yeah makes sense
emotions
uh i don't know it's hard for me to like
feel emotions lately like as far as like
expressing them like i feel them but i
don't know how to describe them
yeah what do you feel that you don't
worry about describe tell me what you
physically feel
[Music]
i feel like tension i guess still in my
body
i but i also don't sleep so i'm not
seeing that part of me is wondering like
how much of it is because i don't
physically take care of myself
versus like the actual job itself
both it's not either or there's your
either or thinking again
is it because i don't take care of my
physical self or because of the job
both right
and i can tell that you've got some
emotion i think maybe what i said was
maybe a little bit more
hurtful or gained traction than i
intended no no it wasn't hurtful it's
just my that's just
how my body copes with i guess physical
stress too is like
emotional crying and stuff no that
doesn't make sense to me so because what
triggered
your response is something that was
emotional in origin
your body copes so it's a cycle like i
said something and then that triggered
an emotional response
does that make sense maybe just like
part of it could be also like knowing
that i have to change and also being
like
scared to actually do it yep that i can
get behind
what are you scared of
i don't really know i guess failing
yeah see you're doing a good job
so now we know there's fear right that's
what you're feeling
there's tension but there's also fear
yeah i guess like there's so many like
different aspects of like
the way the physical and emotional and
like ambition and stuff that it just
kind of like is very confusing to
process
yeah i completely agree so i think you
have a lot
of emotions that you've stuck in your
basement
or attic because we're in texas and we
don't have basements
yeah and i think the problem is like
just like cleaning out your attic or
garage
when you go in there and you've stuffed
a lot of stuff in there it can feel
really really overwhelming and there's
fear and there's ambition there's hope
there's responsibility there's duty
the coping mechanism is to just like
suppress all of it and just keep like
burying yourself into work yep
very insightful
right and that's not going to work on
i didn't mean to be sound condescending
but sorry no
fine i say that to males that i work
with too
i say dude and hun kind of
interchangeably i try to be gender equal
i have so i will call women dudes and i
will call men
hun yeah and therefore i offend everyone
equally
do you mind if i ask how old are you 26.
yeah and are there people that can
like do you have support in your life
um i guess like my parents are generally
supportive you know
but like i guess i don't really talk to
many people so it's like yeah and no
like in theory supportive but like not
like on a daily basis
do you share your struggles with anyone
not really what does that feel like i
can't talk back so huh my dogs can't
talk back
so yeah um i don't know
i guess you'd kind of not tend not to
think about it when you don't practice
doing it right if you just suppress
everything and
just keep working and you don't have
time to think about it you don't realize
how much it's like
[ __ ] up up there yeah
i want you to take a deep breath
good slow exhalation
it's hard for me to like physically deep
breathe deeply which i think contributes
a lot to anxiety
what makes it hard for you to physically
deep breathe deeply
like my nose doesn't inhale air very
much and when i do it through my mouth
it feels like i can't get it quite to my
diaphragm like it's very drying
okay
okay so what i want you to do is slow
down your exhalation
so
really slow slower okay
slower tiny tiny tiny tiny
huh it feels like i'm running out of air
to exhale
good it feels like you're running out of
air to exhale or do you feel hungry for
air at the end of your exhalation
both like i feel like it needs to be
longer and that i need more immediately
so it sounds like taking deep breaths is
actually somewhat uncomfortable for you
yeah interesting
i think it's because like with my nose
it's like it wasn't as bad when i was a
kid so my whole life
i've been used to nose breathing i've
never developed like the mouth breathing
except like i guess maybe when i'm
asleep and don't realize it
but like as i get older i feel like it's
becoming more of an issue so it's like
i'm having to shift it and it's
uncomfortable too because i've built it
up the other way
can you do me a favor can you pinch the
tip of your nose like this and then
breathe
it's like a little better i've noticed
that too when i like shift my nostrils a
certain way i can get more air through
it
just pinch and take a deep breath
i just realized how ridiculous we look i
know
can you notice a difference though yeah
it's a little easier
okay interesting yeah
so kate you know i think of all of the
conversations i've ever had on stream
this feels to me to be the most
incomplete what do you think about that
what do you mean by incomplete i feel
like we have a lot more left to talk
about
what do you think yeah probably
i would say so just like i guess because
i'm a unique case most people don't like
do this type of like constantly for
years yeah
what comes up when you say that
exhaustion a little bit and like sadness
for myself
you sound really tired to me
i joke with chad i'm always tired
they're like how do you keep having
energy
when aren't you tired by now i'm like no
i'm always tired
you know it's like the hulk thing he's
always mad
what's it like to be tired all the time
just overwhelming to my system like i
don't even know why i'm crying it's not
that i'm sad it's just like my system is
physically overwhelmed
i think you've gotten so good at
suppressing that your body is like hey
we have a bunch of emotions
and then your mind is like uh-uh and
then your body's like okay we gotta put
them somewhere and they come
out through your body yeah probably
i've been like this too since i was a
kid like you know this is like if my mom
was like
yelling at me to clean my room or
something like just any kind of
confrontation and it might be because my
breathing problem just induces more
anxiety i'm not quite sure
like just like mundane parental
conversations i would just start crying
and it's not like a sad thing she's not
like insulting me it's just like any
type of like confrontation where i'm
like
having to do something i didn't like
naturally want to do because i'm like a
messy kid it's just like constant
crying yeah
kate have you thought about working with
a therapist or do you work with a
therapist
no i thought about it i haven't done it
yet
what's gotten oh i can probably answer
this but what's
what's kept you from here
if i've been paying attention i should
know the answer already but
let's do give you the benefit of asking
you what's gotten in the way
i'm just working so much i guess the
time yeah
so i think you gotta really seriously
consider it and i think a couple hours
throughout the week like three or four
hours throughout the week i'd say
ideally every day
you got a schedule as part of your job
something to take care of yourself
yeah because you owe that to kate
yeah absolutely it's really weird
because i think people whenever you cry
perceive like you're really sad and i'm
like
i'm not even sad i'm just like
physically overwhelmed
i feel like i'm not like emotional about
a certain thing at the moment
you know like all things considered i
have a pretty like
good outlook on life you know i'm like
yeah i'm really lucky to be here i have
all my
stuff in order and stuff i know i don't
take care of myself but i'm not like
emotionally torn up about anything at
the moment it's just like my body
expresses being overwhelmed with crying
yep
so i and it's my belief okay that
you do have part of that that over
physical feeling of overwhelmed
is probably like emotion that as you
kind of have hinted that is suppressed
right because when like how does it feel
to be tired you said tired and
sad there's some guilt there's some fear
i imagine there's a lot of a thing it's
more of like
i guess it's like a different type of
sadness it's not like you know like oh
no everything is terrible it's more of
like oh
it sucks that like i'm losing myself
kind of like
sorrow for like my personality i guess
yeah it
that is very sad right
just listening to that person it's just
like a sad thing
it's it's hard to put into words yeah so
it's almost as if you're like not
connected to that person it's almost
like it almost sounds like dissociative
to me
a little bit you know like you're like
oh it's like it's sad that that's
happening to kate
oh well back to editing youtube videos
exactly
right and and that's that's that's the
crux of what we're talking about today
is like you've
you've lost touch with yourself
and i think part of what keeps you from
re-engaging
is because like if you re-engage you
mentioned fear
i think part of what you could be afraid
of is like
the torrent of stuff that's gonna come
if you engage
if you reconnect with kate amaranth is
afraid of getting bowled over
yeah and if you fall apart as amaranth
then everything you've worked for
gets blown away
and so why would you risk connecting
with kate
i'm sorry i don't have more for you oh
no it's fine
i i not really i don't have expectations
i just feel like it's good i'm sure
there's like a lot of people who
make content who like feel similarly
like the grind is like
taking away part of what made them them
before the social media
grind began and they just don't know how
to talk about it or two to talk to or if
they even can because they sound like
ungrateful little [ __ ] and
yep i was gonna you know i've been
waiting for an opportunity to ask if you
sound if you feel that way
do you feel like an ungrateful little
[ __ ] i mean i don't
i don't feel like i am i'm just afraid
of like if you
talk about this a lot are you perceived
that way right it's like if you're like
man
it's so like it's so uh i guess
exhausting to be able to do what you
want for a living day in and day out
with no one to tell you otherwise and
get to make a lot of money doing that
yeah it must be
must be really terrible you little [ __ ]
type of thing
it's like people it's a reaction to it
like oh yeah
try shoveling [ __ ] in the street for 12
hours see if you prefer that you
ungrateful [ __ ]
so i feel like people would be
yeah the internet the internet loves it
when content creators
don't get to be human yeah they hate
treating you like humans
go like there's a lot of gatekeeping
around suffering too
you know we say like oh you're not
allowed to suffer
because you have it better than other
people which is just not true
unfortunately if only it were true
any kind of apologies if this has been a
little bit of meandering on my end but
like any kind of takeaways or anything
that you felt was helpful from today's
conversation
um just reconfirming that my feelings
aren't
ungrateful and crazy and that it would
be understandable to feel that way
yeah i think very much so
i think not only is that understandable
i think you deserve to feel that way and
i think you should feel that way and i
think it's okay to feel that way
yeah and i don't think that anything
that you
do invalidates any of the things that
you feel
i don't think that your gratitude your
luck your empire or anything
obs like takes away the right for you to
feel the way that you do
and i do think you're gonna need courage
and
practice not discipline don't need
[ __ ] discipline
discipline isn't for people like us
you don't need it because i have not a
good amount of that
yep right and i'm sure people watching
would be very confused because what they
see is someone who works like 16 to 18
hours a day
right 20 hours a day they're like how is
this person not disciplined
it's not disgusting i don't know how to
take time off
yeah it's like robot hyper focus yep
and so some people robot hyper focus on
video games you robot hyper focus on
streaming
and people are envious of
people who happen to hyper focus on
things that lead to
monetary success which is fair but at
the end of the day i feel like you're
just as out of control as someone who's
like addicted to video games and playing
at home because you're not in control
you're consumed you're on autopilot
so yeah and
you know kate like i said i'm i'm sorry
that i feel like there's still a lot to
cover in terms of like practically
i think i'm gonna make a note based on
our conversation
today about like if you're completely
stuck on autopilot and living a life
whether it be a grind or video games
like practically how do you get started
and the first thing
so i think i'm gonna think about this
and try to maybe make like a
video or something but the first thing
that i would encourage you to do
is to make set aside sometime in your
day schedule
time for yourself is part of your job
okay you know and and like even if it's
like
and even like 30 30-minute meal time is
like not a bad idea we haven't talked at
all about food but i don't know if you
eat and take care of it i don't
i only eat on the stream because i never
i moved into this house maybe like
a year and a half ago almost two years
now maybe and i never bought
a table and chairs because i'm always
working so i eat at my desk
when i'm working
okay any questions for me
um not really i guess if uh
you want to have like an another talk if
since you feel it's incomplete i'm
always open
yeah how do you feel about that
i think it would be good be a fun fun
endeavor for me too
like i like talking about it even if i
cry through some of it it's still like
enjoyable for me to discuss things like
that
i find them insightful good for a lot of
people who
don't have that avenue to talk about it
so
i i think that that could be really
useful okay
i think the the because what i felt from
our conversation today is that there's a
lot of like really practical stuff
there's sort of like some emotional
stuff like i would have loved to dig in
and get to a particular emotion
but oddly enough i don't think that like
discovering a particular emotion
is the most important thing for you i
think the most important thing for you
is for you to like literally schedule
time to take care of yourself throughout
the day
yeah and and like i know it sounds small
but like the cool thing is that you've
built this
monster and you can build a different
one
the one where you take care of yourself
and i do think you can find balance in
your case
kate it's all about a lack of balance
yeah
and generally speaking when people are
unbalanced i don't think they're as
successful
yeah do you want to learn how to
meditate today
sure so i'm a little bit reluctant to
teach you a breathing meditation
i mean i can always try yeah but that's
okay we don't have to teach you a
breathing meditation
so i actually what i'm going to teach
you is something also a little bit more
practical so i want you to sit up
straight so you said you have a lot of
tension in your neck
yeah what i want you to do is tuck your
chin
towards your throat yeah like that so
you
feel like you're kind of the back of
your head is kind of stiffening up
does that make sense like tuck your chin
towards like
you know where your atoms would be and
now i want you to
hold that spot hold that tightness like
in terms of
you know you're not you're kind of yeah
like kind of like looking down
almost and then i want you to turn your
head to the side this could be hard with
headphones
but keep it tucked up and tell me what
you feel
[Music]
not um an incredible amount of soreness
just because i do exercises a lot for
this
i just i still like feel it when i'm
like supposed to be like in a resting
position i like feel my body being held
tense but it's not actually sore
yeah i understand so so and then come
back to the middle
okay so and then go to the other side so
keep your chin tucked and then turn
and then you should feel something along
like either here
or on the back side do you feel that
yeah probably the back side
and then come back to the middle
and then this way
and then back to the middle then go
ahead and close your eyes
okay and now we're going to go to the
other side
and just focus on that sensation
of the tightness yep
and then back to the middle
and then over to your left right
and notice that as you tuck your chin in
a little bit more
you may feel an increased sense of
tightness
keep that chin nice and tucked
and now back to the middle
and then over to the other side
now as we're doing this your mind may
start to wander
especially as we go through subsequent
rounds
so just notice those thoughts
now back to the middle and let yourself
flew back in so now just go ahead and
relax for a second let your
chin relax eyes closed
and now feel your body
i still feel the tension a little bit on
like the back
on both sides okay so just go ahead and
let your shoulders hang down
like imagine like your arms are actually
sleeves
on a piece of clothing hanging on a
hanger
so don't hold them up just let them hang
good
now what i want you to do is take a deep
breath in
and push out your diaphragm
and then out good you can use nose or
mouth whichever you prefer
deep breath in
and out
and again
now i want you to sit with the person
that you are
try to figure out who is this
who are you right now is this kate
this is amaranth
is this the future starter of your
animal rescue sanctuary
is this a girl from texas
just be with whoever you are
let your palms be face up
feel the warmth in your hands
try to stay nice and straight with your
spine but let the rest of you relax
now we're going to take a deep breath in
and we're going to raise our shoulders
during the breath
spike up your shoulders and then as you
exhale let them come down a second time
deep breath in
and then out and relax
and then third time
and out
now in the space afterwards
go ahead and notice what thoughts may
come
and i'll try to trigger some think about
all the work that you could be doing
all the things that you can
and invite those thoughts to come invite
the beast
of duty responsibility of being
trapped of having a mission
trying to make the world a better place
all of those big thoughts with a capital
b and a capital t
all of those things that are more
important than kate
all of those things can be there but
they just just exist in your head
that you are actually more than those
thoughts
whatever your goals are whatever your
aspirations are
whatever you strive to be
that all of those are just located in a
tiny tiny
part of you that there's so much
more to you than those things
and now we'll do the last phase of our
exercise today
and that's going to be what i want you
to do is open your eyes for a second and
look at me
so keep your arms by your sides let them
hang down
and then as we breathe in what we're
going to do is actually i'm going to put
my arms up
and then touch them up top like a
namaste
and then as you exhale
let them come out good
and then again breathe in
and then out
now close your eyes we're going to do
three more
and try to match the arms with your
inhalations as they come up
as you fill up air your fingers should
touch and as you exhale
as your breath finishes your hands are
by your sides
two more deep breath in
and then out
then last one
and now we'll sit in silence for a few
minutes
add 60 seconds
when you're ready go ahead and open your
eyes
it's bright yeah
world is a different place
so kate one last thing that i'll leave
you with
reality isn't what you think it is all
that [ __ ] is just thoughts
i don't know if that makes sense to you
but like this is really what you are
and i think you should work hard every
day but
nothing i mean this this goal that you
have is the light at the end of the
tunnel and it's not worth sacrificing
today for
because the scary thing is sometimes the
light at the end of the tunnel is
actually another train
yeah uh what was that practice like for
you
i guess less tints
a little more like relieving of the
tension
good what was your mind doing
not really anything great that's the
point
that's why we meditate to give yourself
a break from your mind
because your mind does a lot to you it
does a lot for you
so take a break from it from time to
time
yeah for me i have even though i have
add
since i have breathing problems if i
have to concentrate on breathing that's
the only thing i can do
because it's so difficult to actually
breathe so it kind of counteracts
the issue sounds uncomfortable to have
breathing problems
yeah yeah cool well any
last questions for me before we wrap up
for the day
uh no i think that's pretty good here
um do you mind if we follow up with you
about whether you went horseback riding
next week
sure would that keep you more
accountable
probably should we should we do it or
should we ask your viewers to do it
um maybe both
okay schedule they can include it
yeah because i schedule weekly so
a lot of what you stream is for them
right and so let them help you out too
yeah and maybe your viewers can do
something for themselves during the same
hour that
you know stalkers and stuff aside i
don't know how much information you can
freely give out but
if you're planning on doing something to
take care of yourself i think it'd be
really awesome if your community could
do the same thing
and then you guys could like meet and
kind of check in with each other about
doing it yeah that'd be nice
cool thank you very much for coming on
and i hope we were able to help in some
small way
yeah definitely it's good to know that
i'm not crazy yet
just close but not there yet we're good
no i think you're the very opposite of
crazy i think you're
a normal wonderful person who has had
life social media and streaming get to
them because that's what it does
and i think underneath i hope you'll be
able to find some kind of balance
between kate and amaranth
instead of leaving her at home yep
just gotta work on it it has to be
something that i do proactively because
it's not going to happen if i just keep
being like at some point sure damn
straight
wise words okay wise words and something
that i think everyone can take home
taking care of yourself is not something
that happens on autopilot it's something
that you do
so good luck with that thank you i
really appreciate it
take care you too
you